---
layout: post
title: Year in Review
shorttitle: 2015 - Year in Review
---

The University of Texas at Austin chapter of the IEEE Robotics and Automation
Society serves a diverse community of students consisting primarily of
Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Computer Science majors.

Our
students are enthusiastically driven to incorporate and apply their classroom
knowledge in real world settings. Our purpose is to educate and promote STEM in
the rapidly growing fields of robotics and automation. We do so by providing
opportunities for students to pursue their own personal projects, as well as
providing opportunities for them to compete in robotics competitions on local,
national, and international levels.


## Competitions

### Robotathon
Our chapter hosts its own introductory level robotics competition for freshman
or sophomore engineering students with no prior robotics experience. In the fall
of 2014, RAS witnessed the most successful Robotathon competition to date with
more teams competing and completing the challenge then ever before.

### Mercury
The Mercury Robotics Competition, hosted by Oklahoma State University, tests
competitors skills in the areas of wireless communication and autonomous
driving. In 2015, the University of Texas Robotics and Automation Society won
the Best Video Presentation Award for [<span class="bodyLink">a video production highlighting the organization's entry for the competition</span>](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QIHHMD3rOR0).

### Region 5
Region 5 Robotics went to New Orleans in April for the 2015 competition. Going
through a course autonomously using sensors and vision processing, UT RAS’s
Region 5 team took 13th place in competition.

### The Convention for Unconventional Robotic Movement (CURM)
CURM is a convention hosted by the University of Texas Robotics and Automation
Society focused on exploring new and creative methods of locomotion.
Participants may enter their own robot design for judging and exhibition. This
year certificates celebrating the most creative and most complex designs were
awarded to participants. CURM continues to grow in size and popularity, as more
students from the University of Texas and local areas choose to participate in
the convention.

### IGVC
IGVC spent the year making plans for future competition entries. Some of their
ideas include structural changes to the current robot (known as Grandpa
RASputin) and a complete software overhaul to improve the robot’s current
functionality. The all-new IGVC team, headed by sophomore Justin Rubio, plan to
have a competition-ready robot by June 2016.

### VEX
UT RAS’s VEX team partnered with Rice University’s robotics team to send two
teams to the 2014 competition, known as “Skyrise.” Attending competitions in
Oklahoma and Houston, the robots that VEX built had various challenges to
overcome, including lifting object to the tops of tall pillars.

## Outreach

We participated in LEGO Day at Silicon Labs in October 2015. This included
building competition fields for the FIRST LEGO League’s robotics competitions.
We also participated in numerous on-campus events, such as the 40 for Forty
Acres Day and Introduce a Girl to Engineering Day.

