---
layout: post
title: Mercury
shorttitle: 2016 - Mercury
---

The Mercury Remote Robot Challenge is an international, interscholastic robotics
competition put on each year by Oklahoma State University, located in
Stillwater,Oklahoma.

The challenge in essence is to design and build a robot
capable of completing a remote mission where the operator of the robot must be
located at least 50 miles from the robot.A few of the challenges in this  year’s
mission include maneuvering a serpentine path,picking up a bean bag
payload,balancing across a seesaw, and launching the beanbag at a target. This
year’s competition also coincides with the transit of  Mercury between the sun
and the earth - an event that happens only 14 times a century!

RAS’s very own Mercury team has gotten off to a great start this year having
just wrapped up our third general meeting.To better tackle the specific
challenges of this competition and to ensure that everyone is working at their
full potential, we’ve split our team into smaller software and hardware
sub-teams, with each teams having their own leaders, deadlines and personal
goals. At this point, our mechanical team is transitioning out of their initial
planning phase towards an initial building phase, while software has been
focusing on researching the resources that are available to them and getting
better accommodated with the Robotic Operating System and Arduino environments.
Looking forward to the coming weeks, the team will be building an initial robot
base, finalizing who will be accompanying the robot to Oklahoma and preparing to
turn in our finalized technical documentation.

###### Author: Hasun Amarasekara
